This page lists accessories, tools, and parts that bladeRF users may find useful.  Please feel free to add your favorites!

= External DC Power =
The DC barrel jack on the bladeRF requires a 5V adapter, which should be rated to supply 1.5 to 2A.

The inner plug on the receptacle (on the bladeRF) is 2.5 mm and is +V.  The diameter of the plug on the power supply is 5.5mm and is -V.

== Wall Mount AC Adapters ==
* [https://www.nuand.com/blog/product/power-supply Power supply on Nuand shop]
* OMNIHIL [http://www.omnihil.com/products/ac-dc-power-adapter-adaptor-5v-sk02g-0500300u-with-plug-size-5-5mm-x-2-5mm-replacement-switching-power-supply-cord-cable-ps-wall-home-charger-mains-psu?variant=1494981313 SK02G-0500300U]

== bladeRF Jumper Configuration ==
As shown by page 14 on the [http://nuand.com/bladerf.pdf bladeRF schematic], the DC barrel jack is a  [http://www.mouser.com/ds/2/393/rapc712x_cd-371318.pdf Switchcraft RAPC712X]. Remember that both jumpers on J70 need to be moved when switching between USB power and the DC barrel input:

* Power from USB Cable:
** Jumper J70 pins 2 and 3
** Jumper J70 pins 4 and 5

* Power from external DC supply
** Jumper J70 pins 1 and 2
** Jumper J70 pins 5 and 6

```

J70 Pinout:
 4 3
 5 2
 6 1 <| (Pin 1 silkscreen annotation) 

USB Power

 | |
 | |
 o o <| (Pin 1 silkscreen annotation) 
    

External DC power
 
 o o
 | |
 | | <| (Pin 1 silkscreen annotation) 

Legend:
o: Denotes non-jumpered pin
|: Denotes jumpered pin
```


= Attenuators and Terminators =

You should never transmit without a 50 ohm load attached to the bladeRF's TX port, whether it be an antenna or a terminator. The same goes for the outputs on the XB-200.  

Similarly, you should not connect the bladeRF TX port directly to the RX port. If you'd like to externally loop TX into RX, a 30 dB attenuator is recommended.

* [http://www.minicircuits.com Minicircuits]
** Attenuator Kits
*** [http://www.minicircuits.com/MCLStore/ModelSearch?model=K1-VAT%2B&search_type=info K1-VAT+] ([http://www.minicircuits.com/pdfs/K1-VAT+.pdf Datasheet])
** Terminators:
*** [http://www.minicircuits.com/MCLStore/ModelSearch?model=ANNE-50%2B&search_type=info ANNE-50+] ([http://www.minicircuits.com/pdfs/ANNE-50+.pdf Datasheet])

= Cables =

== SMB (for MIMO synchronization) ==

* [http://www.jameco.com/1/1/2376-smb-174mm-12-r-female-smb-plug-female-smb-plug-cable-assembly.html Jameco SMB-174MM-12-R]
* Amphenol-RF Division 145101-01-12.00
** [http://www.digikey.com/product-search/en?mpart=145101-01-12.00&vendor=115 via Digikey]

= Combiners =

[http://www.radio-electronics.com/info/rf-technology-design/coupler-combiner-splitter/rf-splitter-combiner-basics.php Combiners] provide an excellent means to "hard-wire" multiple devices together for testing and evaluation. 

* [http://www.jfwindustries.com/products/50PD_732_Resistive_Power_Divider_Combiner_from_JFW_Industries-1396-79.html 50PD-732 Resistive Power Divider/Combiner from JFW Industries]

= Mounting Hardware =

The mounting holes on the bladeRF and the add-on boards are intended for use with 2-56 machine screws.

* Radio Shack
** [http://www.radioshack.com/2-56-round-head-machine-screws-42-pack/6403010.html 2-56 Round-Head Machine Screws] (Model: 64-3010 Catalog #: 6403010)
** [http://www.radioshack.com/2-56-hex-nuts-40-pack/6403017.html 2-56 Hex Nuts] (Model: 64-3017 Catalog #: 6403017).
* Home Depot
** [http://www.homedepot.com/p/Crown-Bolt-2-56-x-3-8-in-Phillips-Slotted-Round-Head-Machine-Screws-37011/203085930] (includes 10 screws and 10 nuts)

= Programming and Debug Tools =

== Altera Cyclone IV FPGA ==

* Terasic Blaster Cable
** via [http://www.terasic.com.tw/cgi-bin/page/archive.pl?No=46 terasIC website]
** via [http://www.digikey.com/en/product-highlight/t/terasic-tech/usb-blaster-cable Digi-Key]
** via [http://www.mouser.com/new/terasic-technologies/terasic-USBblaster/ Mouser]

* Altera USB Blaster
** via [https://www.buyaltera.com/PartDetail?partId=1212940 Altera]

== Cypress FX3 ==

* Segger [https://www.segger.com/jlink-debug-probes.html J-Link]
** The J-Link PLUS (or J-Link EDU for students) are recommended
** See Segger's distributor page for a distributor near you!

= RF Test Enclosures =

An RF test enclosure is an excellent way to perform testing without causing interference. Use of a well-shielded test enclosure is ''highly'' recommended.

* [http://ramseytest.com/product_list.php?category=1 Ramsey RF Shielded Test Enclosures]

