This page provides some information and links to Live Linux DVDs or USB images that include bladeRF support.  

This is a great place to start if you are new to Linux, and is a better choice than using a virtual machine for a few reasons:
* SDR support and applications are pre-installed
* All of your CPU and RAM are dedicated to the OS, rather than splitting between a guest and host.
* It's very portable!
** You can often create persistent data region on live USB sticks to save your changes to the image
* The quality and reliability of USB pass-through support varies across different VM software offerings.
<br>

= Creating Live DVDs and USB Sticks =
There are a myriad of useful resources regarding burning ISOs to DVDs and preparing bootable USB sticks on the web. Below are a just a few guides. Feel free to add any guides you've found helpful!
* [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto An Ubuntu community wiki page] on burning ISOs to DVDs.
** This covers Windows, Mac OS X, and Ubuntu Linux.
* [http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/create-a-usb-stick-on-ubuntu An Ubuntu guide on creating a bootable USB sticks]
** You may need to run the following to install the Startup Disk Creator: <pre>$ sudo apt-get install usb-creator-gtk</pre> 
** Note the option to reserve extra space . This allows you to make persistent changes to the image, for example, installing your favorite packages or program configurations. <b> This is highly recommended!</b>
* [https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/USB_flash_installation_media An Arch wiki page] on creating USB flash installation media
** This is a very complete guide, which includes details for Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux operating systems, as well as various programs.
* [https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/LiveUSB/HOWTO A Gentoo wiki guide on creating a Live USB stick]
* [http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/ UNetBootin] - A cross platform tool for creating bootable USB drives.
* [http://sourceforge.net/projects/usbwriter/ USBWriter] - A Windows tool for writing bootable images to USB drives.

= Live Distros =

Below are live Linux images that contain bladeRF support.

The FPGA images are included in <code>/usr/share/Nuand/bladeRF</code> and will be [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/wiki/FPGA-Autoloading#host-software-based automatically loaded] when a device is opened.  If you wish to use different FPGA images, you can place them in <code>~/.config/Nuand/bladeRF/</code>.
</pre>

== GNU Radio Live SDR Environment ==
From the [http://gnuradio.org/redmine/projects/gnuradio/wiki/GNURadioLiveDVD GNU Radio Live SDR Environment] wiki page:<br>

<i>"The GNU Radio Live SDR Environment, produced by [http://corganlabs.com/ Corgan Labs], is a bootable Ubuntu Linux DVD with [http://gnuradio.org/redmine/projects/gnuradio/wiki GNU Radio] and third party software pre-installed. It is designed for quick and easy testing and experimentation with GNU Radio without having to make any permanent modifications to a PC or laptop."</i>

The current version (containing GNU Radio 3.7.6), contains bladeRF support from [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/commit/06703b23986d391097ec451e161f75caa8cdaca6 changeset 06703b23].  

== Pentoo ==

bladeRF support is now included in [http://www.pentoo.ch Pentoo], a security-focused live Linux image based upon Gentoo.  See the Pentoo [http://pentoo.blogspot.com/ blog] and [http://www.pentoo.ch/download/ downloads page] for more information.

The 2015 RC3.7 Pentoo release includes:
- bladeRF-cli v0.12.0 (2014.11-rc3 release)
- libbladeRF v0.17.0  (2014.11-rc3 release)
- FPGA bitstream v0.1.1
- FX3 firmware version 1.7.1