= Overview = 

The [https://www.nuand.com/blog/product/amplifier/ Nuand XB-300] is an amplifier expansion card that greatly expands the bladeRF’s RF performance. The amplifier card features an a LNA, and diversity combiner for RX,
and a Power Amplifier, TRX switch, and highly accurate Power Out Measurement ADC for TX. The schematic for the XB300 [https://nuand.com/xb300  may be found here].

The [http://www.minicircuits.com/pdfs/TSS-53LNB+.pdf TSS-53LNB wideband (0.5-5 GHz) LNA] found on the RX path provides a low noise figure and a max gain of 20 dB. 

The [http://www.skyworksinc.com/uploads/documents/SE2623L_202397E.pdf SE2623L PA] in the TX path offers up to 33 dBm of gain in the 2.4 GHz ISM band. It features an integrated temperature-compensated power detector.

The XB-300 ships in a configuration designed for separate RX and TX paths. Thus, if you are using
an XB-300 in its "out of the box" state, follow the <b>RX</b> and <b>TX</b> instructions below.

The population of resistors R8, R10, and R23 select the input to the RX LNA. Users may adjust the resistor population options to instead use a single antenna and the on-board TRX switch, or add an additional RX antenna input to a combiner.

= Hardware Configuration =

== RX ==

# Connect the bladeRF <b>RX</b> SMA connector (<i>J53</i>) to the XB-300 <b>RXIF</b> SMA (<i>J7</i>) with an SMA cable.
# Connect a cable or antenna to the XB-300 <b>RX ANT</b> SMA connector (<i>J5</i>).

== TX ==

# Connect the bladeRF <b>TX</b> SMA connector (<i>J54</i>) to the XB-300 <b>TXIF</b> SMA (<b>J4</b>) with an SMA cable.
# Connect a cable or antenna to the XB-300 <b>TRX ANT</b> SMA connector (<i>J3</i>).

== TRX ==

Follow the above instructions for <b>TX</b>

= Usage =

The general steps for using the XB-300 are as follows:

# Enable the board. This configures and initializes the expansion port GPIOs.
# Enable the LNA and/or PA.

== libbladeRF ==

Enable the XB-300:

```
int status = bladerf_expansion_attach(device_handle, BLADERF_XB_300);
```


Enable the the LNA or PA:

```
bladerf_xb300_amplifier amp = BLADERF_XB300_AMP_LNA; /* Or BLADERF_XB300_AMP_PA */
bool enable = true;
int status = bladerf_xb300_set_amplifier_enable(device_handle, amp, enable);
```

For users that have performed the TRX resistor modification, the TRX switch can be configured as follows:

```
bladerf_xb300_trx trx = BLADERF_XB300_TRX_RX; /* Or BLADERF_XB300_TRX_TX */
int status = bladerf_xb300_set_trx(state->dev, trx);
```

== bladeRF-cli ==

The below snippet lists the commands needed to enable the XB-300, turn on the
TX PA, and to turn on the RX LNA:

```
bladeRF> xb 300 enable

  Enabling XB-300 Amplifier board
  XB-300 Amplifier board successfully enabled

bladeRF> xb 300 pa on

  PA: Enabled

bladeRF> xb 300 lna on

  LNA: Enabled
```

For users that have performed the TRX resistor modification, the TRX switch can be configure as followed:

```
# Set switch to TX
bladeRF> xb 300 trx tx

# Set switch to RX
bladeRF> xb 300 trx rx
```

== Recommendations ==

An [https://www.nuand.com/blog/product/power-supply/ external DC power supply] is highly recommended when using the XB-300. See [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/wiki/bladeRF-Accessories#bladerf-jumper-configuration this page] for instructions on how to power the bladeRF from an external DC supply instead of the USB connection.

When using the TX PA, additional external filtering for the band/channel of interest is also <b>highly</b> recommended.