This guide describes the process of building and installing the bladeRF host libraries and tool for a Linux system, and quickly getting a device up and running using pre-built firmware and FPGA images.

== Easy installation: PyBOMBS ==

[https://github.com/gnuradio/pybombs PyBOMBS] is essentially a package manager and build system for GNU Radio. It handles the fetching, building, and installation of GNU Radio and dependencies, and is largely system independent. The installation steps are listed on the [https://github.com/gnuradio/pybombs PyBOMBS GitHub] page, but the following is a list of steps and basic packages needed to get up and running with the bladeRF.

Before compiling on Ubuntu systems, ensure the following packages are installed.
<pre>
$ sudo apt-get install python3-six python-six python3-mako python3-lxml python3-lxml python3-numpy python3-numpy python3-pip git
</pre>

NB: If the pybombs command is not found after pip install ensure that ~/.local/bin is part of your path. If it is not, run (and also add the following command to your .bashrc): <pre>export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/.local/bin</pre>

Install PyBOMBS (using pip, but other methods are listed on the PyBOMBS README.md), apply the default configuration, and add the default recipes:

<pre>
$ pip3 install --upgrade git+https://github.com/gnuradio/pybombs.git
$ pybombs auto-config
$ pybombs recipes add-defaults
</pre>

To use Nuand's experimental gr-osmo, consider running the following:
<pre>
$ sed -i 's/git.osmocom.org/github.com\/Nuand/g' ~/.pybombs/recipes/gr-recipes/gr-osmosdr.lwr
</pre>

If building default or latest GNURadio (>=3.8), try to remove the following Qt4 and PyGTK dependencies by trying:
<pre>
$ sed -i '/^- pygtk/d' ~/.pybombs/recipes/gr-recipes/gnuradio.lwr ~/.pybombs/recipes/gr-recipes/gnuradio38.lwr
$ sed -i '/^- qt4/d' ~/.pybombs/recipes/gr-recipes/gqrx.lwr
</pre>

Optionally to enable gr-video-sdl, try:
<pre>
$ sudo apt-get install libsdl1.2-dev libsdl2-dev
$ sed -i 's/-DENABLE_VOLK=ON/-DENABLE_VOLK=ON -DENABLE_GR_VIDEO_SDL=ON/g' ~/.pybombs/recipes/gr-recipes/gnuradio.lwr ~/.pybombs/recipes/gr-recipes/gnuradio38.lwr
</pre>

Now, let's create a prefix, or a directory in which to install all the GNU Radio components. In this case, we set the prefix directory to <code>~/pybombs/bladeRF</code>. We also specify the alias, <code>bladeRF</code>, for easy reference later, and install the default GNU Radio setup.

<pre>
$ mkdir ~/pybombs/
$ pybombs config --package gnuradio gitrev v3.8.1.0
$ pybombs config --package gr-osmosdr gitrev dev-gr-3.8
$ pybombs prefix init ~/pybombs/bladeRF -a bladeRF -R gnuradio-default
</pre>

At this point, GNU Radio has been installed into <code>~/pybombs/bladeRF</code>. Now, install useful applications such as bladeRF and gqrx:

<pre>
$ pybombs -p bladeRF install bladeRF gr-iqbal gr-osmosdr gqrx
</pre>

Once each component has been successfully built, they may be run using <code>pybombs -p bladeRF run <command></code>, some examples follow:

<pre>
$ pybombs -p bladeRF run bladeRF-cli -- -i
</pre>

<pre>
$ pybombs -p bladeRF run gqrx
</pre>

Alternatively, the GNU Radio environment may be "sourced" into the active console, allowing applications to be run directly.

<pre>
$ source ~/pybombs/bladeRF/setup_env.sh
$ bladeRF-cli -i
$ gqrx
</pre>

==== PYTHONPATH Errors ====
If any PYTHONPATH warning or errors appear while launching gnuradio-companion, ensure all of the Python package library paths in ~/pybombs/bladeRF/lib/ are present in $PYTHONPATH.

To have <code>setup_env.sh</code> try to fix missing PYTHONPATH paths, first backup the <code>setup_env.sh</code> then try:
<pre>
$ echo "export PYTHONPATH=$(echo ~/pybombs/bladeRF/lib/*/*-packages | sed 's/ /:/g')":'$PYTHONPATH' >> ~/pybombs/bladeRF/setup_env.sh
</pre>

If everything went correctly, something similar should appear:
<pre>
$ tail -n 1 ~/pybombs/bladeRF/setup_env.sh
export PYTHONPATH=/home/user/pybombs/bladeRF/lib/python3.8/site-packages:/home/user/pybombs/bladeRF/lib/python3/dist-packages:$PYTHONPATH
</pre>
Note: the paths should be absolute paths, and they should appear on the very last line of the <code>setup_env.sh</code> file. If things match, try sourcing the file again <code>source ~/pybombs/bladeRF/setup_env.sh</code>

If these outputs do not appear or do not match, it might be good to restore the backup of the <code>setup_env.sh</code> file and manually add the missing Python package paths to the file.

=== PyBOMBS udev rules ===

You may get a permissions error when trying to access the bladeRF. This is typically from lack of, or incorrect, udev rule(s) and may be remedied by following the [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/wiki/Troubleshooting#pybombs udev installation instructions].

=== PyBOMBS and gr-fosphor ===

On recent Ubuntu systems, try the following steps to install gr-fosphor. This assumes the appropriate GPU drivers are already installed. 
<pre>
$ sudo apt install ocl-icd-opencl-dev
$ sudo apt-get install libfreetype6 libfreetype6-dev
$ pybombs -p bladeRF install bladeRF gr-fosphor
</pre>

== Easy installation for Ubuntu: The bladeRF PPA ==
If you're running '''Ubuntu 20.04 (focal) or later''', a PPA is available at [[ppa:nuand/bladerf|https://launchpad.net/~nuandllc/+archive/bladerf/+packages]].  New builds will appear occasionally as bladeRF releases (and release candidates) are tagged.

To activate the PPA, simply:

<pre>$ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:nuandllc/bladerf
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install bladerf</pre>

If you plan to build gnuradio, gr-osmosdr, etc, you will also need the header files:

<pre>$ sudo apt-get install libbladerf-dev</pre>

Firmware and FPGA images can be installed from this PPA as well.  Firmware should be manually updated using <code>bladeRF-cli --flash-firmware /usr/share/Nuand/bladeRF/bladeRF_fw.img</code>, but the FPGA image will be automatically loaded by libbladeRF when you open your device.

<pre>
$ sudo apt-get install bladerf-firmware-fx3     # firmware for all models of bladeRF
$ sudo apt-get install bladerf-fpga-hostedx40   # for bladeRF x40
$ sudo apt-get install bladerf-fpga-hostedx115  # for bladeRF x115
$ sudo apt-get install bladerf-fpga-hostedxa4   # for bladeRF 2.0 Micro A4
$ sudo apt-get install bladerf-fpga-hostedxa9   # for bladeRF 2.0 Micro A9
</pre>

Note: All of the FPGA images can be installed simultaneously without issue.

Then, skip down to the [[Getting-Started:-Linux#wiki-Checking_basic_device_operation|Checking basic device operation]] section, bypassing the compilation steps.

Note: Ubuntu's repositories have an older version of the bladeRF libraries and tools, with the <code>bladeRF-cli</code> tool provided by a package named <code>bladerf-host</code>, instead of <code>bladerf</code>.  If you've previously installed the Ubuntu repository version, the <code>apt-get install bladerf</code> step will remove/upgrade the older packages as appropriate.

'''Skip down to "Checking Basic Device Operation" after performing these steps.'''

== Installing dependencies ==

'''If you already installed the bladeRF software using apt-get above, you can skip this section.'''

'''NOTE:''' If your distribution provides libusb-1.0 packages earlier than 1.0.16, you may want to consider to manually installing libusb >= 1.0.16, either from source or from upstream packages. Issues have been reported with earlier versions.

=== Debian-based distros (e.g., Ubuntu) ===

Install dependent packages for the build:
<pre>$ sudo apt-get install libusb-1.0-0-dev libusb-1.0-0 build-essential cmake libncurses5-dev libtecla1 libtecla-dev pkg-config git wget</pre>

You can check the libusb and libusb-dev versions installed on your system via:
<pre>
$ dpkg -s libusb-1.0-0 libusb-1.0-0-dev 
</pre>

''Optional:'' If you wish to build libbladeRF documentation and the bladeRF-cli man page, you'll need the following:

<pre>
$ sudo apt-get install doxygen help2man pandoc
</pre>

=== Redhat-based distros (e.g., Fedora, CentOS) ===
<pre>
$ sudo yum groupinstall "Development Tools" "Development Libraries"
$ sudo yum install libusbx libusbx-devel cmake wget gcc-c++ libedit libedit-devel
</pre>

''Optional:'' If you wish to build libbladeRF documentation and the bladeRF-cli man page, you'll need the following:
<pre>
$ sudo yum install doxygen help2man pandoc
</pre>

== Building bladeRF libraries and tools from source ==

'''If you already installed the bladeRF software using apt-get above, you can skip this section.'''

=== Clone the bladeRF git repository ===

To obtain the latest source code for the first time, clone the Nuand git repository via:
<pre>
$ git clone https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF.git ./bladeRF
$ cd ./bladeRF
$ ls  
</pre>


The directory contents will look something like this:
<pre>
CHANGELOG       CONTRIBUTORS  debian           fx3_firmware  host   README.md
CMakeLists.txt  COPYING       firmware_common  hdl           legal
</pre>

In the future, you can update the repository via:
<pre>
$ git pull
</pre>

=== Configure the build ===

First enter the directory containing the host source. Then create and enter a directory to perform the build in. By working out of the a 'build' directory, it's easy to later clean up, by simply removing 'build/'.

<pre>
$ cd host/
$ mkdir build
$ cd build
</pre>


Next, configure the build. In the below example, we:
* Set up a Release build
** Change to <code>Debug</code> for a debug build, or <code>RelWithDebInfo</code> for a release build with debug symbols
* Enable the installation of udev rules. 
** By default, this grants members of the ''plugdev'' group read-write access to bladeRF devices.  This group can can be changed via <code>-DBLADERF_GROUP=desired_group</code>. 
* Specify that files should be installed into /usr/local
** You can install into a different location via the <code>-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/some/desired/path</code> option. Note that you'll need to need to configure binary and library search paths if you install elsewhere. If you're unsure how to do this, simply follow the steps below to use the default install location.

<pre>
$ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr/local -DINSTALL_UDEV_RULES=ON ../
</pre>


Ensure that your user is in the group specified by <code>BLADERF_GROUP</code>.  Check the output of the ''groups'' command:

<pre>
$ groups
jon adm cdrom sudo dip plugdev lpadmin sambashare
</pre>

In the above case, the user is already in the <code>plugdev</code> group, so we can skip ahead to the next subsection.

However, on other systems, the user may not already be in the required group. Furthermore, some distributions may not use the plugdev group. In these cases, you can either add a user to a more appropriate group or create a new group (and configure the build with <code>-DBLADERF_GROUP=desired_group</code>.  For example, to create a ''bladerf'' group and add the user ''jon'' to it:
<pre>
$ groups
jon wheel
$ sudo groupadd bladerf
$ sudo usermod -a -G bladerf jon

# Now log out and log back in...

$ groups
jon wheel bladerf
</pre>

=== Perform the build and installation ===

The following commands:
# Perform the build
# Install files to /usr/local or the location specified by <code>CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX</code>
# Updated share library paths, so that libbladeRF can be found

<pre>
$ make && sudo make install && sudo ldconfig
</pre>

=== Uninstalling later ===
Note that from this same directory, you can run the following to uninstall the files place on your system in the previous step. <pre>sudo make uninstall</pre> 

The ''install_manifest.txt'' file, created after running the install step successfully, lists all the files installed.  It is a good idea to back up this file if you plan on removing this build directory later.

== Checking basic device operation ==

Before continuing, see the [[Getting Started: Verifying Basic Device Operation]] guide to test basic functionality. 

If you encounter any issues or warnings, be sure to check the [[Troubleshooting]] guide before continuing on with this article.

== Building GNU Radio, gr-iqbal, and gr-osmosdr ==

The following procedure uses build-gnuradio to fetch dependencies and checkout some useful tools. However, it only covers installing GNU Radio and gr-osmosdr.  A similar procedure maybe used to install the other tools.

See the [https://gnuradio.org/redmine/projects/gnuradio/wiki/InstallingGRFromSource GNU-Radio wiki for more information], including the use of [http://gnuradio.org/redmine/projects/pybombs/wiki PyBOMBS], which is now the installation method preferred by many users. 

If you're not comfortable with the instructions presented below, please consider following the [http://gnuradio.org/redmine/projects/pybombs/wiki PyBOMBS] instructions on the GNU Radio wiki instead.

=== GNU Radio >= 3.7.7 and VOLK ===
As of GNU Radio v3.7.7, [http://libvolk.org/ VOLK] is now a separate project pulled in via a git submodule. This implies that one must use the <code>--recursive</code> flag when cloning the repository. (build-gnuradio and PyBOMBS do this for you.)  If you are manually cloning the GNU Radio and forget to use the <code>--recursive</code> flag, you'll need to run <code>git submodule init volk</code> followed by <code>git submodule update</code> to initialize the VOLK subrepo.

=== Multiple GNU Radio Installations ===
Having multiple GNU Radio installations on your system is highly discouraged, unless you're aware of how to 
avoid mixups between library search paths and binary paths between the different installations.

If you are building GNU Radio from source, as shown below, ensure you do not have GNU Radio installed from your distribution's package manager or from a previous build.  If you do, remove it before continuing.

=== Using build-gnuradio to fetch dependencies and checkout source via Git ===

<pre>
$ mkdir -p ~/software/gnuradio-build
$ cd ~/software/gnuradio-build
$ wget http://www.sbrac.org/files/build-gnuradio
$ chmod +x ./build-gnuradio
$ ./build-gnuradio -m prereqs gitfetch
</pre>
The <code>build-gnuradio</code> script will prompt you a few times before proceeding; type 'y' and press enter to continue. Note that this script takes a bit of time, depending on how many dependencies you need to have installed. Run <code>top</code> periodically to see what's currently going on.

=== Compile GNU Radio ===
<pre>
$ cd ~/software/gnuradio-build/gnuradio/
$ git checkout -b gnuradio-v3.7.13.4 v3.7.13.4
$ mkdir build
$ cd build
$ cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/opt/gnuradio-3.7.13.4 ../
$ make -j8 && sudo make install
</pre>

=== Add GNU Radio to linker path and executable path ===
If you would like GNU Radio to be available in PATH for all uses, create a new file called <code>/etc/profile.d/gnuradio.sh</code>:
<pre>sudo vi /etc/profile.d/gnuradio.sh</pre>

Otherwise, if you would like GNU Radio executables to only be in your path, update your shell's runtime-config file, such as <code>~/.bashrc</code>.

Put the following into it:
<pre>
#!/bin/bash

# Add GNU Radio binaries to the search path
GNURADIO_PATH=/opt/gnuradio-3.7.13.4
export PATH=$PATH:$GNURADIO_PATH/bin

# Add GNU Radio python libraries to python search path
if [ $PYTHONPATH ]; then
        export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:$GNURADIO_PATH/lib/python2.7/dist-packages
else
        export PYTHONPATH=$GNURADIO_PATH/lib/python2.7/dist-packages
fi
</pre>

'''Note:''' Be sure to update <code>GNURADIO_PATH</code> if you deviated from gnuradio-3.7.13.4

'''Note:''' If you're on a non-Debian based distro, you might need to replace "dist-packages" with "site-packages".

Again, with your favorite text editor, create a new file called `/etc/ld.so.conf.d/gnuradio.conf`:
<pre>sudo vi /etc/ld.so.conf.d/gnuradio.conf</pre>

Put this in the new file:

<pre>/opt/gnuradio-3.7.13.4/lib</pre>
'''Note:''' on some 64 bit systems, you might need a lib64 directory in this file as well.

* Update your library cache again
<pre>$ sudo ldconfig -v | grep gnuradio</pre>

You should see something akin to the following:
<pre>
/opt/gnuradio-3.7.13.4/lib:
        libgnuradio-analog-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-analog.so
        libgnuradio-trellis-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-trellis.so
        libgnuradio-fft-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-fft.so
        libgnuradio-fec-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-fec.so
        libgnuradio-qtgui-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-qtgui.so
        libgnuradio-channels-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-channels.so
        libgnuradio-wavelet-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-wavelet.so
        libgnuradio-pmt-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-pmt.so
        libgnuradio-atsc-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-atsc.so
        libgnuradio-video-sdl-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-video-sdl.so
        libgnuradio-vocoder-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-vocoder.so
        libgnuradio-fcd-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-fcd.so
        libgnuradio-zeromq-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-zeromq.so
        libgnuradio-blocks-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-blocks.so
        libgnuradio-audio-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-audio.so
        libgnuradio-dtv-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-dtv.so
        libgnuradio-pager-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-pager.so
        libgnuradio-noaa-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-noaa.so
        libgnuradio-filter-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-filter.so
        libgnuradio-digital-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-digital.so
        libgnuradio-runtime-3.7.13.4.so.0.0.0 -> libgnuradio-runtime.so
</pre>

If so, you're all set!

For the changes to your PATH take effect, either:
* Log out and log back in
* Run <code>$ source /etc/profile.d/gnuradio.sh</code> or <code>source ~/.bashrc</code>, depending which file you added the PATH definition to, in order to update the environment in your current terminal

Once you have logged back in to your desktop, you should be able to run gnuradio-companion.


If you get a pop-up with errors about ''PYTHONPATH'' or ''LD_LIBRARY_PATH'', check the output of the <code>env</code> command to see how these environment variables are currently set.

=== Build and install gr-iqbal ===
This step is optional, but will make additional IQ balance functionality available for gr-osmosdr.

<pre>
$ cd ~/software/gnuradio-build/gr-iqbal
$ mkdir build
$ cd build
$ cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/opt/gnuradio-3.7.13.4 ../
$ make -j8 && sudo make install && sudo ldconfig
</pre>

=== Build and install gr-osmosdr ===
[http://sdr.osmocom.org/trac/wiki/GrOsmoSDR gr-osmosdr] was checked out during the build-gnuradio execution. This provides GNU Radio support for a number of devices, including the bladeRF.

<pre>
$ cd ~/software/gnuradio-build/gr-osmosdr
$ mkdir build
$ cd build
$ cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/opt/gnuradio-3.7.13.4 ../
$ make -j8 && sudo make install && sudo ldconfig
</pre>

=== Simple test applications to verify device operation ===
The osmocom programs may be used to quickly view an FFT and generate a tone. 

Test Receive: (446 MHz)
<pre>osmocom_fft -a bladerf=0 -s 2500000 -f 446000000</pre>

Test Transmit: (446 MHz + 25 KHz )
<pre>osmocom_siggen -a bladerf=0 -s 2500000 -f 446000000 -g 4 --sine -x 25000</pre>

Note that only one program can have the bladeRF opened at a time. 

If you'd like to run a quick test in a full-duplex configuration, consider creating a GRC flowgraph.  

''Do not connect the bladeRF TX output to the RX input without an attenuator.'' If you do not have an attenuator, consider using the bladeRF's (technically, the LMS6002D's) internal baseband and RF loopback modes, via the ''[http://sdr.osmocom.org/trac/wiki/GrOsmoSDR#bladeRFSourceSink loopback=]'' argument to the osmocom sink/source block.

=== Build and install GQRX ===

[http://gqrx.dk/ GQRX] is a software defined radio receiver powered by GNU Radio and Qt. The bladeRF is supported via gr-osmosdr. The latest and greatest of GQRX can be built from source as follows, assuming you have Qt5 libraries (and development headers) already installed: 
(Note: On Debian-based distros, you will need to <code>sudo apt-get install libqt5svg5-dev</code> if you don't already have it. On Ubuntu you may need to <code>sudo apt-get install qt5-default</code> for QT5 libraries, if you don't already have them. Ensure that you have <code>qt5-qmake</code> installed.)

<pre>
$ cd ~/software/gnuradio-build/
$ git clone https://github.com/csete/gqrx.git
$ cd gqrx
$ mkdir build
$ cd build
$ cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/opt/gnuradio-3.7.13.4 ../ 
$ make -j8 && sudo make install && sudo ldconfig
</pre>

When first running gqrx (or after running <code>gqrx -e</code>), you will be presented with a dialog to configure a device. Below are some suggested settings to start:

'''Device String:''' <code>bladerf=0,buffers=128,buflen=8192,transfers=32</code>

This selects the first available bladeRF, and adds some additional buffering.

'''Sample rate:''' <code>5000000</code>

5Msps is a good starting point, as this should work on both USB 2.0 and USB 3.0 connections.

'''Bandwidth:''' <code>3.84 MHz</code>

The bandwidth should always be set less than the sample rate to minimize aliases and prevent noise from folding in. See [http://www.limemicro.com/download/LMS6002Dr2-DataSheet-1.2r0.pdf Figure 6 in LMS6002D] datasheet to determine how low to set the bandwidth to ensure you get maximal rejection at the bandwidth limits governed by your sample rate. (Note that the plots' X axes are from 0 to Fs/2, not -Fs/2 to Fs/2).

==== Tips ====
* Note that the ''Receive Options'' tab allows you to enable various demodulators
* Use the ''Squelch'' under ''Receiver Options'' to mute auto below a certain threshold
* The ''FFT settings'' tab allows you to increase the FFT size and speed up the FFT and waterfall
* If audio is choppy, try reducing your sample rate and bandwidth, the FFT size or rate, or all of these.

</pre>


