This page provides some quick tips on troubleshooting problems.

If you run across an issue not listed here and find a solution, please feel free to post it here!


= Configuration and Compilation Issues =

== Build fails due to a warning being treated as an error ==
By default, builds use ''-Werror'' or ''/WX'' to treat warnings as errors, with the intent of forcing developers to address any warnings.

Occasionally, we've seen different compiler versions throw errors that were not seen on developers' machines, breaking master for users.

Master is intended to always build. If you suspect a build is broken due to a warning being treated as an error, please report it via IRC or the issue tracker, and run the following from your build directory as a temporary workaround:
```
cmake -DTREAT_WARNINGS_AS_ERRORS=No ../
```

== libbladeRF ==

=== Missing libusb ===
If the libusb is reported to not be found, it may be the case that pkgconfig was not able to locate libusb. (This will certainly be the case for Windows.) Check your PKG_CONFIG_PATH variable, and ensure that libusb is installed to a location in your system's library search path. 

Users that are in a *nix environment and have installed libusb via a package manager, should double check that both the library and development packages for libusb-1.0 (sometimes packaged as libusbx-1.0) are installed.

Windows users should use the '''LIBUSB_PATH''' CMake variable to specify the location of a the libusb(x) binary distribution.

=== Outdated libusb ===
If you receive a message similar to the following when running CMake, you'll need to obtain a more recent version of libusb:
<pre>
A newer libusb version is needed by libbladeRF. libusb >= v1.0.10 is required to build. libusb >= v1.0.16 is recommended.
</pre>

For some distributions, it may be possible to simply pull in a package from an upstream source for a later distro version.  However, this is not always possible, as more recent versions of libusb packages may require a newer libc or libudev. 

For example, Ubuntu 12.04 users will find that libusb-1.0.9 is provided in the repositories. In this case, it is recommended to upgrade to a more recent distribution (a 3.8+ kernel is also highly desirable). If this is not possible, these users may want to try obtaining a libusb package from the 12.10 repositories (this has not been tested), or attempt to build a slightly newer version from source.

=== libusb_get_version() is undefined ===
''Note: This build issue has been resolved as of [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/commit/95a6c1d0e0988196b57205bff38a47251f0692b4 commit 95a6c1d0e098]. If you see this issue, ensure that you've checkout out the lastest codebase, remove and recreate your build directory, and re-run CMake.''

If you see an error about being unable to find the <code>libusb_get_version</code> function, the version of libusb installed on your machine needs to be updated. Updating to >= 1.0.10 for Linux is required, but >= 1.0.16 is '''highly''' suggested.

There is [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/issues/130 an open action item] to change the CMake configuration to detect and complain about this, prior to compilation.

== Cannot build <code>libtecla</code> under Mac OSX 10.9 due to missing <code>libgcc.a</code> ==
Please take a look at [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/wiki/Building-libtecla#configure-and-build Building libtecla] and note the <code>sed</code> script required to remove the link to <code>libgcc.a</code> in the Makefile.  This is due to the fact that the <code>configure</code> script for <code>libtecla</code> uses <code>gcc -print-libgcc-file-name</code>, which [http://lists.cs.uiuc.edu/pipermail/llvmbugs/2013-February/027238.html does not provide a full-path].

Removing all notion of <code>libgcc.a</code> from the <code>Makefile</code> appears to alleviate the problem. Alternatively, one may be able to replace this item with the full path the the clang-provided libgcc.a.

= Runtime Issues =

== Failing to see or connect to the device ==

=== Linux: udev and permissions ===

If you are unable to access the bladeRF in Linux, it may be the case that your user does not have ample permissions to access the device.


If <code>bladeRF-cli -p</code> or <code>bladeRF-cli --probe</code> reports <i>"No devices found,"</i> then running with <code>-v verbose</code> may provide some additional info as to why this is the case. In the below example, the <code>LIBUSB_ERROR_ACCESS</code> is the important clue to notice.
<pre>
$ bladeRF-cli -p -v verbose
[VERBOSE @ libusb.c:240] Found a bladeRF
[DEBUG @ libusb.c:134] Couldn't populate devinfo - LIBUSB_ERROR_ACCESS

  probe: No devices found.
</pre>


When running <code>bladeRF-cli -i</code> without the <code>-d</code> option, the CLI will attempt to open any available device. As of [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/commit/a8f5f71a9747720be82eb0fee35bcc3f3b19bc85 commit a8f5f7], libbladeRF prints an [INFO] message if a failure occurs due to insufficient permissions:

<pre> 
$ bladeRF-cli -i
[INFO @ libusb.c:419] Found a bladeRF but could not query its information due to insufficient permissions.
No device(s) attached.
bladeRF> 
</pre>

In order to access the bladeRF, Linux users must ensure:
* The <code>88-nuand.rules</code> file has been installed to <code>/etc/udev/rules.d/</code>
** When building from source, the CMake option <code>INSTALL_UDEV_RULES</code> defaults to <code>ON</code>
* The user is in the group specified by the CMake variable <code>BLADERF_GROUP</code>
** <code>BLADERF_GROUP</code> defaults to `plugdev`, because Debian/Ubuntu users are typically in this group when allowed to access removable USB storage devices.  You may wish to change this to conform to your security policies or distribution.
* The udev rules have been reloaded since the installation of the aforementioned rules file
** This can be done via <code>sudo udevadm control --reload-rules</code> and then re-plugging the device.

If you have verified the above items and still cannot see the device:
* Confirm that you see the device in the output of <code>lsusb -v</code>
* Look for any information about the device's connection in the output of <code>dmesg</code>

==== PyBOMBS ====

Because [http://gnuradio.org/redmine/projects/pybombs/wiki PyBOMBS] allows users to perform installations as non-root users, it uses <code>-DINSTALL_UDEV_RULES=OFF</code> when configuring the bladeRF project with CMake. (Copying a file to <code>/etc/udev/rules.d/</code> requires root access, which a PyBOMBS user may not have.)

Therefore, if you've installed bladeRF support via PyBOMBS you will need to manually install the udev rules:

# Copy [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/blob/master/host/misc/udev/88-nuand.rules.in this file] to a <code>88-nuand.rules</code> file.
# In <code>88-nuand.rules</code>, replace <code>@BLADERF_GROUP@</code> with the name of a group your user is in.
# Copy this file to the udev rules directory: <code>sudo cp 88-nuand.rules /etc/udev/rules.d/ && sudo chmod 644 /etc/udev/rules.d/88-nuand.rules</code>
# Reload rules: <code>sudo udevadm control --reload-rules</code>
# Replug the device.

=== Device may only be opened by one program ===
Currently, only one program may have a device open at a time. Any additional calls to bladerf_open() or bladerf_open_with_devinfo() will fail with BLADERF_ERR_NODEV.

Under the hood, this is due to the first caller opening a device claiming the device's interfaces via libusb_claim_interface().  Further attempts to claim an interface will fail with LIBUSB_ERROR_BUSY.

Setting the libbladeRF log level to DEBUG or VERBOSE will generally make this issue apparent. See the bladeRF-cli -v option, or libbladeRF's bladerf_log_set_verbosity() function for information on setting the log level.

For example, if a first instance of the bladeRF-cli is started:
<pre>
$ bladeRF-cli -i -v verbose
bladeRF> info
  Serial #:                 00000000000000000000000000000000
  VCTCXO DAC calibration:   0x8100
  FPGA size:                40 KLE
  FPGA loaded:              yes
  USB bus:                  2
  USB address:              6
  USB speed:                Hi-Speed
  Backend:                  libusb
  Instance:                 0
</pre>

If another instance of the CLI is run simultaneously, we'll see the aforementioned libusb error about a device being busy (as its interfaces are already claimed by a different device handle.):
<pre>
$ bladeRF-cli -i -v verbose                                       ~
[VERBOSE] Found a bladeRF
[DEBUG] FPGA currently does not have a version number.
[DEBUG] Could not claim interface 0 - LIBUSB_ERROR_BUSY
No device(s) attached.
bladeRF> 
</pre>

If you're encountering the following error message with GNU Radio programs, but have verified that the device operates in the CLI, double check that no other programs have the device open:

<code>FATAL: bladerf_source_c failed to open bladeRF device libusb:instance=0</code>


=== Device's VID and PID ===
Under normal operation, the bladeRF should appear with VID=1d50 and PID=6066.  

If you see a Cypress device with VID=04b4 and PID=00f3, your bladeRF's FX3 may be in its bootloader mode. In this case, you may see a message in the bladeRF-cli program that notes a potential bladeRF running in bootloader mode. See the [[Upgrading-bladeRF-firmware|firmware upgrade]] wiki page for information on flashing the device.

=== Virtual Machines ===
If you are using a Virtual Machine, there have been issues reported when changing the interfaces or claiming different interfaces.  The level of success has been varied depending on the type of port (XHCI or EHCI) and the VM software used.  

It has been reported that some VM software does not fully support USB 3.0. Verify the speed that the VM detects the device at, and try falling back to 2.0 if 3.0 does not work.

Note that you may have to enable USB support in your VM's configuration. For example, in VirtualBox, one must check the "Enable USB Controller" and "Enable USB 2.0 (EHCI) Controller" options under a VM's USB settings.

=== Windows ===
To see the device in Windows, ensure you have the appropriate <code>inf</code> installed so that Windows associated the bladeRF with a libusbK driver. Verify that you've followed [[Getting-Started:-Windows#installing-libusbx|these steps]] in the Getting Started guide for Windows.

Windows driver signing enforcement may cause driver installation problems. Try using the latest Zadig on the computer you want to install the driver on. Zadig will self-sign the driver package and install the corresponding certificate.

In Windows 8, Libusbx may incorrectly report USB 3.0 SuperSpeed connection as Hi-Speed.

=== Mac OSX ===
If you have performed an operating system update, and a previously working bladeRF stops working, you might have a mismatch between the OS and libusb. (For example moving from OSX 10.9.0 to 10.9.1). A sign of this will be that you can see the device via <code>bladeRF-cli -p</code>, but you cannot send or receive any data and instead you will see error messages like <code>[ERROR] Failed to access peripheral</code>. In this case, reinstall libusb:

<pre>
$ sudo port -f uninstall libusb
$ sudo port install libusb
</pre>

=== Host or Device-specific Issues ===
As USB 3.0 is still relatively new, we've heard reports of some controller working great, and others not working at all. Ensure you have the latest drivers (and firmware, if needed) for your USB controller.

If possible, try testing the device on both USB 2.0 and USB 3.0 ports, as well as other host machines. 

==== Issues with XHCI and Linux ====

Previously, there was a known problem with Intel XHCI controllers in Linux when killing an application using libbladeRF in a manner that didn't allow libusb_close() to be called. This caused the device to not open again until a power-on reset was performed. This has been resolved in libbladeRF v1.2.0, via [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/commit/2c48ba9e53574c7f4d3f7b8a969d89667b94251c commit 2c48ba9e].

Other reported problems with Linux and XHCI drivers range from poor transfer rates to system-wide lockups.  Should you encounter these, it is recommended that you try to use a more recent kernel version. 

For example, the 3.13 kernel shipping with Ubuntu 14.04 is reported to cause system lockups when using a Renesas uPD720202-based USB 3.0 controller. However, the 3.16 kernel shipping with Ubuntu 14.10 does not appear to be affected.  (For those needing to remain on the 14.04 LTS, it is recommended that you [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/GitKernelBuild build a more recent kernel])

==== Working configurations ====
Below is a list of configurations that people have reported success on. Feel free to add to this list. (Please try to keep it reasonably organized.)
{| class="wikitable"
| Configuration Name
| Device/Motherboard/CPU
| Controller or Chipset
| Operating System(s)
|-
| jynik's Desktop
| [http://www.evga.com/support/manuals/files/132-GT-E768.pdf EVGA x58 FTW3], Intel i7
|  Onboard NEC/Renesas controller and [http://www.rocketfishproducts.com/products/computer-accessories/RF-P2USB3.html 2-Port PCIe card] NEC/Renesas
| Windows 7, XUbuntu 12.10, 13.04, 13.10  (All 64-bit)
|-
| jynik's Laptop
| Thinkpad W530, Intel i7-3630QM
| Intel 7 Series/C210 Series xHCI (VID=8086, PID=1e31)
| Windows 7, XUbuntu 13.04 (All 64-bit). '''Note''': The XHCI issues mentioned above applies to the Linux configuration here. Able to process 40 Msps in osmocom_fft without overruns.
|-
| drmpeg's Desktop
| Dell T3600, Intel E5-1607
| Onboard NEC uPD720200 xHCI
| Ubuntu 13.04 (32-bit just to run old XView stuff). Able to process 36 Msps in osmocom_fft without overruns.
|-
|tnt's laptop
|Apple Mac Book Pro Late 2008 (MacBookPro5,1)
|ExpressCard ASM1042 (VID=1b21, PID=1042)
|Gentoo (3.8.10-gentoo x86_64)
|-
|Anker PCI-E card
|Uspeed USB 3.0 PCI-E Express Card with 4 USB 3.0 Ports
|VL805 Chipset (VIA Technologies, Inc. Device 3483 (rev 01))
|Ubuntu 13.04 x86_64. osmocom_fft runs without issue at 40Msps
|-
|scancapecod's at work desktop
|Dell Optiplex 9020 / i5-4570 @ 3.20GHz
|Intel 8 Series/C220 Series USB Enhanced Host Controller, Intel USB 3.0 eXtensible Host Controller
|Windows 7 Pro 64 bit Service Pack 1. SDR-Radio 30 MHz display
|-
|HoopyCat's desktop
|ASUS Z87-PRO / i7-4770
|Intel Corporation 8 Series/C220 Series Chipset Family USB xHCI (rev 05)
|Linux Mint 16 x86_64
|-
|piranha32's desktop
|Asus P6T/i7 920@2.66GHz
|Syba SD-PEX20139, uPD720201
|Fedora 21 x86_64. Max RX sample rate measured using bladeRF-cli: 31Msps
|-
|piranha32's desktop
|Asus P6T/i7 920@2.66GHz
|IOCrest/Syba SY-PEX20140, Etron EJ188
|Fedora 21 x86_64. Max RX sample rate measured using bladeRF-cli: 83Msps
|}

==== Problematic Configurations ====
Issues have been reported on the following configurations:
{| class="wikitable"
| Configuration Name
| Device/Motherboard/CPU
| Controller or Chipset
| Operating System(s)
| Issues and symptoms
|-
|steve-m's desktop (with onboard xHCI controller)
|ASRock Z68 Pro3 Gen3, Z68, Intel i5-2500K
|Etron Technology, Inc. EJ168 USB 3.0 Host Controller (rev 01)
|Xubuntu 13.10 x86_64, Linux 3.11
|"Failed to access peripheral", libusb timeouts, kernel reports "Not enough bandwidth for altsetting 0" and other xHCI related errors
|-
|Orico PCI-E card
|PVU3-4P USB 3.0 PCI-Express Host Controller Card
|VIA Technologies, Inc. VL80x xHCI USB 3.0 Controller (rev 03)
|Ubuntu 13.04 X86_64
|Hard lock while loading firmware
|-
|piranha32's desktop
|Asus P6T / i7 920@2.67GHz
|SABRENT CP-4PTU USB3 PCIe card with VIA Technologies, Inc. VL80x xHCI USB 3.0 Controller (rev 02)
|Fedora 19 x86_64. 
|The card worked flawlessly for about a month, but after that time started to hard lock the motherboard on every attempt to stream from bladeRF.
|-
|[http://www.sybausa.com/productInfo.php?iid=1157 3.5" 4 Port USB 3.0 Bay Hub with All-in-One USB 2.0 Card Reader]
|lsusb output:
2109:0811
058f:6364 Alcor Micro Corp. AU6477 Card Reader Controller
|
|Arch Linux w/ kernel 3.13.5-1-ARCH
|Hard lock when reading samples. Needed to reboot.
|}


== Outdated firmware warning ==
This warning comes up if you have a that is considered out-of-date. It may be considered out of date due to libbladeRF requirements, or based upon the FPGA version that was detected.  

Please update to the [http://nuand.com/fx3/latest.img latest firmware], per the instructions in [[Upgrading-bladeRF-firmware|this wiki page.]]

== Outdated FPGA warning ==
libbladeRF prints a warning if it detects that the device's firmware requires a more recent FPGA version. If you see this message, fetch the associated FPGA image from [https://www.nuand.com/fpga.php the FPGA download page].

== bladeRF-cli detects device in bootloader mode ==
In the event that flash is corrupted, the bladeRF falls back to a bootloader mode, courtesy of the Cypress FX3 USB 3.0 peripheral controller.  From this bootloader, we can [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/wiki/Upgrading-bladeRF-firmware#upgrading-using-the-fx3-bootloader re-flash the firmware].

The current bladeRF-cli version should detect and report FX3-based devices found in bootloader mode, as shown below:

```
$ bladeRF-cli -i
NOTE: One or more FX3-based devices operating in bootloader mode
      were detected. Run 'help recover' to view information about
      downloading firmware to the device(s).

No device(s) attached.
bladeRF> 
```
In this situation, you should see a USB device enumerated as a Cypress Westbridge device. If the only FX3-based device plugged into your machine is a bladeRF you can continue to reflash it. Otherwise, ensure you're not flashing bladeRF firmware onto some other device.

Per the CLI's instructions, we can get additional information on how to recover from the bootloader:

```
bladeRF> help recover

Usage: recover [<bus> <address> <firmware file>]

Load firmware onto a device running in bootloader mode, or list all
devices currently in bootloader mode.

With no arguments, this command lists the USB bus and address for
FX3-based devices running in bootloader mode.

When provided a bus, address, and path to a firmware file, the
specified device will be loaded with and begin executing the provided
firmware.

In most cases, after successfully loading firmware into the device's
RAM, users should open the device with the "open" command, and write
the firmware to flash via "load fx3 <firmware file>"
```

In short, we can run <code>recover</code> to tell us the USB device and address in the bootloader mode, and then we can use this to specify which device to write the firmware to:

```
bladeRF> recover

  FX3 bootloader devices:
  ---------------------------------------------------------
    Backend:    libusb
    Bus:        1
    Address:    5

  Use 'recover <bus> <addr> <firmware>' to download and boot
  firmware to the specified device.
```

Assuming we have the firmware, [http://nuand.com/fx3.php bladeRF_fw_latest.img] in our current directory, we see that our next command should be <code>recover 1 5 bladeRF_fw_latest.img</code>:

```
bladeRF> recover 1 5 bladeRF_fw_latest.img 

  Success! Use "open" to switch to this device.
  Note that a "load fx3 <firmware>" is required t
```

This <code>recover</code> command does not yet actually flash anything. It writes to and boots from RAM on the FX3. This is intended to allow developers to quickly experiment with different firmware loads, without having to always write to flash.

Next, we can open the device and write this firmware to flash.

```
bladeRF> open

bladeRF> version

  bladeRF-cli version:        1.1.2
  libbladeRF version:         1.2.1

  Firmware version:           1.8.0
  FPGA version:               Unknown (FPGA not loaded)

bladeRF> load fx3 bladeRF_fw_latest.img 

  Flashing firmware from bladeRF_fw_latest.img ...
[INFO @ usb.c:611] Erasing 3 blocks starting at block 0
[INFO @ usb.c:616] Erased block 2
[INFO @ usb.c:624] Done erasing 3 blocks
[INFO @ usb.c:818] Writing 479 pages starting at page 0
[INFO @ usb.c:822] Writing page 478
[INFO @ usb.c:831] Done writing 479 pages
[INFO @ flash.c:110] Verifying 479 pages, starting at page 0
[INFO @ usb.c:716] Reading 479 pages starting at page 0
[INFO @ usb.c:719] Reading page 478
[INFO @ usb.c:730] Done reading 479 pages
  Done. Cycle power on the device.

bladeRF> 

```

At this point, one can exit the bladeRF-cli and power cycle the device. It should be detected as a bladeRF when it is next plugged in.

== FPGA load failures ==

=== Operation Timed Out ===
In many cases, load failures have been the result of trying to load the wrong size FPGA image for the board in question. Check to make sure you are using the 40kLE FPGA for x40 and the 115kLE FPGA for x115.

If you're unsure which FPGA size is on your board, identify the the Altera Cyclone IV package on the top of the bladeRF. You should see text on the package that reads ''EP4CExxxF23C8N'', where ''xxx'' is the size -- either 40 or 115.

== File or device I/O failure ==
If you're unable to load the FPGA using a USB 3.0 port while successfully doing so via USB 2.0, edit <code>/linux/drivers/usb/host/xhci.h</code> by changing <code>TRBS_PER_SEGMENT</code> from 64 to 256, and recompiling the kernel.

== Linux: Failure to find libbladeRF.so or libbladeRF.so.0 ==

Ensure the location that you installed libbladeRF to is in your library search path. If you can't recall where this location is:
* Check the ''install_manifest.txt'' from your build directory, if you built from source
* Make note of the libbladeRF location in the output of: <code>ldd `which bladeRF-cli`</code>

If running <code>sudo ldconfig -v</code> does not resolve the issue, you may have to add an ldconfig entry to ensure the proper libraty path is searched by the dynamic loader. To do this::
* As root (i.e., use sudo) create an /etc/ld.so.conf.d/bladeRF.conf and open it with your favorite editor
* Add a single line containing <code>/usr/local/lib</code> to the file.  If you specified something other than /usr/local for ''CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX'' (the default), adjust this line accordingly.
* Run <code>sudo ldconfig</code> and then try running <code>bladeRF-cli --help</code>. The library search issue should now be resolved.

== [ERROR] Could not write to si5338 (-5): File or device I/O failure ==

One possible reason for this error is a mismatch between the FPGA bistream and the firmware being used. [http://nuand.com/forums/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=3514 As of firmware v1.6.0 and FPGA v0.0.1, the UART bridge baudrate has been increased.] Therefore, a mismatch would result in peripheral communication failures, as the FX3 and the FPGA are unable to communicate.

If you're seeing this issue, ensure that you've updated both your firmware (cycle power after flashing), and FPGA. Ensure you've disabled FPGA autoloading before flashing the new firmware, otherwise the (old) autoloaded FPGA will be attempting to use the lower bridge baudrate.

To disable FPGA autoloading: <code>bladeRF-cli -L X</code>

<pre>
$ dmesg | grep xhci
xhci_hcd 0000:03:00.0: Too many fragments 73, max 63
</pre>

Affected Linux kernel versions: 3.12.6 to 3.12.9. 

This has been patched in [https://git.kernel.org/cgit/linux/kernel/git/stable/linux-stable.git/tree/drivers/usb/host/xhci.h?h=linux-3.12.y&id=v3.12.10 3.12.10].

== Mac OSX Superspeed issues ==

If you've used ports to get libusb installed, there is a high likelihood that it is version 1.0.9.  Unfortunately, libusb didn't add superspeed support until version 1.0.15 for OSX. libusb v1.0.17+, works on OSX.

= Getting help =
If you're really stuck, join the #bladeRF channel on [http://webchat.freenode.net/ Freenode] or post to the [http://nuand.com/forums/viewforum.php?f=4 Nuand Troubleshooting forum].

Folks in the community are generally very happy to help. However, to make the most of everyone's time, please try to have as much of following information available as you can. Providing this information up front can help you get to the bottom of things much quicker.

* Information about the target host machine
** Are you in a VM? See the [[Troubleshooting#Virtual-Machines|Virtual Machines]] section for some known problems.
** Are you running on a 32-bit or 64-bit processor?
** What is your USB controller? Given that USB3 is still moderately new, some controllers have found to perform significantly better (or worse) than others.
** Are you connecting your device to a 2.0 or 3.0 port? If a 3.0 port, is it actually enumerating at SuperSpeed (or at Hi-Speed?)
** Is this a tablet or smartphone?
* The OS you're using
** For Linux, please note your distribution (and that distribution's version), as well as kernel version
* Version information for the items you're having issues with
** When running the bladeRF-cli in interactive mode (<code>bladeRF-cli -i</code>), the <code>version</code> command may be used to display information for both host items and the attached device. This is generally helpful in identifying if a problem you're seeing has been fixed in more recent versions.
* Any relevant error messages or warnings.
** Run the bladeRF-cli with <code>-v verbose</code> to enable all output
** (Linux users) Check the output of dmesg and lsusb
** For GNU Radio and gr-osmosdr issues, note the versions of these you're running.
* Have you followed the steps in the [[Home#getting-started-guides|Getting Started]] guides?
** If you're currently in the process of following these guides, which steps have you already performed, and at which step are you encountering problems with?