'''This page is a work in progress'''

This page documents the tasks that must be performed before and after tagging a version change in the various components of the repo.  Build and functional testing tasks are a given and should be documented elsewhere.

The items in this list should be double-checked by a separate dev prior to applying tags.

When multiple components in the repo have changed, this checklist should be performed in the order provided. Generally, this ordering is from the "lowest" layers "upward."

<br>

= FPGA =
* Update the version compatibility table in [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/blob/dddc72f1c6c15ceeb73250daeba07515ff4a7e6f/host/libraries/libbladeRF/src/version_compat.c#L30 libbladeRF's version_compat.c ].
* Update the upstream location and bitstream checksum in the debian postinst files:
** [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/blob/dddc72f1c6c15ceeb73250daeba07515ff4a7e6f/debian/bladerf-fpga-hostedx115.postinst bladerf-fpga-hostedx115.postinst]
** [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/blob/dddc72f1c6c15ceeb73250daeba07515ff4a7e6f/debian/bladerf-fpga-hostedx115.postinst bladerf-fpga-hostedx40.postinst]
* Update FPGA [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/blob/dddc72f1c6c15ceeb73250daeba07515ff4a7e6f/hdl/CHANGELOG CHANGELOG]
* Update the FPGA version in the (no longer appropriately named) [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/blob/dddc72f1c6c15ceeb73250daeba07515ff4a7e6f/hdl/fpga/ip/altera/nios_system/software/lms_spi_controller/lms_spi_controller.c#L48 lms_spi_controller.c] file.
* Generate the official bitstreams '''at''' the tag, with <code>-DTAGGED_RELEASE=Yes</code>

= FX3 =
* Update the version compatibility table in [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/blob/dddc72f1c6c15ceeb73250daeba07515ff4a7e6f/host/libraries/libbladeRF/src/version_compat.c#L30 libbladeRF's version_compat.c ].
* Update the upstream location and image checksum in the debian postinst file: [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/blob/dddc72f1c6c15ceeb73250daeba07515ff4a7e6f/debian/bladerf-firmware-fx3.postinst bladerf-firmware-fx3.postinst]
* Update fx3_firmware [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/blob/dddc72f1c6c15ceeb73250daeba07515ff4a7e6f/fx3_firmware/CHANGELOG CHANGELOG]
* Update the version number in the associated [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/blob/dddc72f1c6c15ceeb73250daeba07515ff4a7e6f/fx3_firmware/CMakeLists.txt#L4 CMakeLists.txt].
* Generate the official FX3 image '''at''' the tag, <code>-DTAGGED_RELEASE=Yes</code>

= libbladeRF =
* Update the libbladeRF [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/blob/dddc72f1c6c15ceeb73250daeba07515ff4a7e6f/host/libraries/libbladeRF/CHANGELOG CHANGELOG]
* Update the version number in the [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/blob/dddc72f1c6c15ceeb73250daeba07515ff4a7e6f/host/libraries/libbladeRF/CMakeLists.txt#L24 CMakeLists.txt] file.
* Generate the Doxygen pages '''at''' the tag with <code>-DTAGGED_RELEASE=ON</code>

= bladeRF-cli =
* Re-generate the fallback <code>cmd_help.*</code> files via the ''[https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/tree/dddc72f1c6c15ceeb73250daeba07515ff4a7e6f/host/utilities/bladeRF-cli/src/cmd/doc src/cmd/doc/generate.bash generate.bash]'' script.
* Update the version number in the [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/blob/dddc72f1c6c15ceeb73250daeba07515ff4a7e6f/host/utilities/bladeRF-cli/CMakeLists.txt#L8 CMakeLists.txt] file.

= Project-Wide Release =
* Ensure '''all''' of the above items are a tagged version. 
* Update the [https://github.com/rtucker/bladeRF/blob/2ec1abaa51b4e457782f2b655f573f31ffdcc020/debian/changelog debian/CHANGELOG]
* Update the top-level [https://github.com/Nuand/bladeRF/blob/dddc72f1c6c15ceeb73250daeba07515ff4a7e6f/CHANGELOG CHANGELOG].
* Obligatory sanity-check sign-offs from the other devs